DOC-13422-Eventing-Memory-Quota (#4055)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/install/pages/sizing-general.adoc

[abstract]
{description}

> The most common and important question that comes up when you plan to deploy a Couchbase Server cluster is: how many nodes do I need and what size do they need to be?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common and important questions you need to ask when deploying a new Couchbase Server cluster are how many nodes you need, and what size they need to be. 
```

=== Multi-Dimensional Scaling

Couchbase Services are what allow you to use and maintain your data.
Deploy, maintain, and provision these services independently of each other. 

> This independent service model allows you to take advantage of `Multi-Dimensional Scaling`, whereby a cluster can be fine-tuned for optimal handling of emergent workload-requirements, on a service-by-service basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couchbase Services allow you to access and maintain your data.
You can deploy, maintain, and provision these services independently of each other. 
This independent service model allows you to take advantage of Multi-Dimensional Scaling.

Multi-Dimensional scaling lets you fine-tune your cluster for optimal handling of changing workload requirements for each individual Couchbase Service.
```

Every service has different demands on hardware resources. 
Multi-Dimensional Scaling plays an important role when sizing your Couchbase cluster, both pre and post-deployment.

> For example, core Data Service operations can often benefit greatly from the `scale out` of smaller commodity nodes, whereas low latency operations with the Query Service may see a greater benefit from the `scale up` of hardware resources on a given node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Service has different demands on hardware resources. 
Multi-Dimensional Scaling plays an important role when sizing your Couchbase cluster, both pre and post-deployment.
For example, core Data Service operations can often benefit from scaling out smaller commodity nodes. 
Low latency operations with the Query Service might see a greater benefit from scaling up hardware resources on a given node.
```

For more information about the nature and resource demands of each Couchbase Service, see xref:learn:services-and-indexes/services/services.adoc[Services].

== About Couchbase Server Resources

This guide discusses four types of resources that you should consider when sizing a Couchbase Server cluster node:

CPU::

> CPU specifies the number of cores and clock speed required to run your workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU controls the number of cores and the clock speed required to run your workload.
```

Reviewer: Sorry, just realized you left a 👍 on this but didn't actually make the changes? Can you confirm why?

Author: Guess somehow this did not get committed!  Have taken care of it now.

RAM::
RAM is often the most crucial areas to size accurately.

> Cached documents provide low-latency reads and consistently high throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAM is often the most crucial area to size.
Cached documents provide low-latency reads and consistently high throughput.
```

+
This resource represents the main memory you allocate to Couchbase Server. 

> Determine the allocation based on the following factors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your RAM represents the main memory you allocate to Couchbase Server. 
Determine your allocation based on the following factors:
```

+
--
* How much free RAM is available beyond OS and other applications?
* How much data do you want to store in main memory?

> * How much latency you expect from KV/indexing/query performance?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How much free RAM is available beyond your OS and other applications.
* How much data you want to store in main memory.
* How much latency you expect from your Data, Indexing, and Query Service performance.
```

--
+

Some components that require RAM are:
+
--
** All index storage types which need sufficient memory quota allocation for proper functioning.

> ** Full Text Search (FTS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The Search Service.
```

| 256 MB minimum; 2048 MB and above recommended

| Query Service

> | This service does not require any RAM allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The Query Service does not require a RAM allocation.
```

Author: Done.

Reviewer: This was not the edit I suggested. Can I ask why?

Requirements for your disk subsystem are:
+
--
* [.term]`Disk size` — Specifies the disk storage space needed to hold your entire dataset.

> * [.term]`Disk I/O` — Combines your sustained read/write rate, database file compaction, and any other operations that requires disk access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Disk size* — Specifies the disk storage space needed to hold your entire dataset.
* *Disk I/O* — Combines your sustained read/write rate, database file compaction, and any other operations that requires disk access. 
```

--
+
To better support Couchbase Server, keep in mind the following:
+
--
* Disk space continues to grow if fragmentation ratio keeps climbing.
To mitigate this, add enough buffer in your disk space to store all of the data.
Monitor the fragmentation ratio in the Couchbase user interfaces and trigger compaction processes when needed.
* Prefer Solid State Drives(SSD), but is not required.

> An SSD gives much better performance than a Hard Disk Drive(HDD) when it comes to disk throughput and latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor your cluster's fragmentation ratio in the Couchbase Server Web Console and trigger compaction processes as needed.
* Couchbase recommends using Solid State Drives (SSD) when possible.
An SSD gives much better performance than a Hard Disk Drive (HDD) when it comes to disk throughput and latency.
```

== Sizing Data Service Nodes

Data Service nodes handle data service operations, such as create/read/update/delete(CRUD).
The sizing information provided below applies to both the `Couchstore` and `Magma` storage engines.
Review the differences between these storage engines before attempting sizing.

> For information, see xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/storage-engines.adoc[Storage Engines].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Service nodes handle data service operations, such as create/read/update/delete (CRUD).
The following sizing information applies to both the Couchstore and Magma storage engines.

Couchbase recommends reviewing the differences between the available storage engines before attempting to size the Data Service nodes in your cluster.
For information, see xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/storage-engines.adoc[].
```

Data Service nodes handle data service operations, such as create/read/update/delete(CRUD).
The sizing information provided below applies to both the `Couchstore` and `Magma` storage engines.
Review the differences between these storage engines before attempting sizing.
For information, see xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/storage-engines.adoc[Storage Engines].

It's important to keep use-cases and application workloads in mind since different application workloads have different resource requirements.
For example, if your working data set needs to be fully in memory, your cluster may need more RAM.
On the other hand, if your application requires only 10% of data in memory, you need disks with enough space to store all of the data.
Their read/write rate must also be fast enough to meet your performance goals.

> === RAM Sizing for Data Service Nodes

Reviewer: Why did you delete this heading?

Author: I wanted to change the heading level and add another = but guess deleted the whole line by mistake! Apologies. Have added it back.

> On the other hand, if your application requires only 10% of data in-memory, you'll need disks with enough space to store all of the data, and that are fast enough for your read/write operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your working set needs to be fully in-memory, your cluster might need more RAM.
If your application requires only 10% of data in-memory, you need disks with enough space to store all of the data, and that are fast enough for your read/write operations.
```

This overhead does not account for any front-end workloads. 
You should allocate additional CPU cores for these workloads. 

> * Refer xref:manage:monitor/monitor-intro.adoc[Monitoring] to monitor CPU usage and System Limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For more information about monitoring CPU usage and System Limits, see xref:manage:monitor/monitor-intro.adoc[].
```

== Sizing Index Service Nodes

> Size a node running the Index Service properly to create and maintain secondary indexes and perform index scans for {sqlpp} queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create and maintain secondary indexes and perform index scans for {sqlpp} queries, you need to size your Index Service nodes.
```

Similar to the nodes that run the Data Service, answer the following questions to take care of your application needs:

--
* What is the length oƒ the document key?
* Which fields need to be indexed?
* Will you be using simple or compound indexes?
* What is the minimum, maximum, or average value size of the index field?
* How many indexes do you need?
* How many documents need to be indexed?

> * What is the working set percentage of index required memory?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* What is the length of your document keys?
* Which fields need to be indexed?
* Will you be using simple or compound indexes?
* What is the minimum, maximum, or average value size of the indexed fields?
* How many indexes do you need?
* How many documents need to be indexed?
* What is the working set percentage of index required memory?
```

--

Answers to these questions can help you better understand the capacity requirement of your cluster, and provide a better estimation for sizing.

*The following is an example use-case for sizing RAM for the Index service:*

> Use the following sizing guide to compute the memory requirement for each individual index and to determine the total RAM quota required for the Index service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following sizing guide to compute the memory requirement for each individual index and to determine the total RAM quota required for the Index Service.
```

| (3200000000) * (1 + 0.25) * 0.2 = 800000000 bytes
|===

The above example shows the memory requirement of a secondary index with 10M index entries, each with 50 bytes size of secondary key and 30 bytes size of documentID. 

> The memory usage requirements are 2.5{nbsp}GB(Nitro, 100% resident), 1{nbsp}GB(plasma, 20% resident), 800{nbsp}MB(ForestDB, 20% resident).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory usage requirements are 2.5{nbsp}GB (Nitro, 100% resident), 1{nbsp}GB (plasma, 20% resident), 800{nbsp}MB (ForestDB, 20% resident).
```

| (3200000000) * (1 + 0.25) * 0.2 = 800000000 bytes
|===

> The above example shows the memory requirement of a secondary index with 10M index entries, each with 50 bytes size of secondary key and 30 bytes size of documentID. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous example shows the memory requirement of a secondary index with 10M index entries, each with a 50 bytes secondary key and a 30 bytes DocumentID. 
```

A node that runs the Query Service executes queries for your application needs.

> Since the Query Service doesn't need to persist data to disk, there are minimal resource requirements for disk space and disk I/O.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Query Service does not need to persist data to disk, there are minimal resource requirements for disk space and disk I/O.
```

You only need to consider CPU and memory.

> Questions that help in sizing the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Answer the following questions to help size the Query Service nodes on your cluster:
```

* What types of queries do you need to run?
* Do you need to run `stale=ok` or `stale=false` queries?

> * Are the queries simple or complex (requiring JOINs, for example)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Are the queries simple or complex? For example, do you need to use JOINs?
```

* What are the throughput and latency requirements for your queries?

Different queries have different resource requirements.
A simple query might return results within milliseconds while a complex query may require several seconds.

The formula used to calculate the number of queries that's processed simultaneously is `CPU&#95;cores * 4`.
The formula used to calculate the maximum queue-length for queries is `CPU&#95;cores * 256`.

> The system rejects additional queries with a 503 error once it reaches the limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you reach either limit, the system rejects additional queries with a 503 error.
```

=== Data space

* Make sure that the data space for Analytics node takes into account metadata replicas. 
The Analytics Service only replicates the metadata and not the actual data. 

> There's a small overhead for metadata replicas as metadata is generally small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure that the data space for your Analytics Service nodes takes into account metadata replicas. 
The Analytics Service only replicates the metadata and not the actual data. 
There's a small overhead for metadata replicas as metadata is generally small.
```

> 
> * When evaluating a query, the Analytics engine uses temporary disk space. 
> The query type the required amount of temporary disk space. 
> For example, queries with heavy JOINs, aggregates, windowing, or additional predicates require more temporary disk space. 
> Typically, the temporary disk space can be 2x the data space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When evaluating a query, the Analytics engine uses temporary disk space. 
The type of query you want to run determines the required amount of temporary disk space. 
+
For example, queries with heavy JOINs, aggregates, windowing, or additional predicates require more temporary disk space. 
Typically, the temporary disk space can be 2x the data space.
```

* The percent of data shadowed, which is dependent on your use case.

* When you load data from the Data Service into the Analytics Service, you can apply a filter to reduce both the loaded data size and the Analytics Service storage requirements proportionally.

> === Disk types and partioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Disk Types and Partitioning
```

During query execution, the Analytics query engine concurrently reads and processes data from all partitions. 

> The Input/Output Operations per Second(IOPS) of the physical disk that hosts the data partitions plays a major role in determining the query execution time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Input/Output Operations per Second (IOPS) of the physical disk that hosts the data partitions plays a major role in determining the query execution time.
```

Modern storage devices such as SSDs have much higher IOPS and can deal better with concurrent reads than HDDs. 

> Therefore, a single data partition under-utilizes high-IOPS devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single data partition underutilizes high IOPS devices.
```

To simplify setup for nodes with a single modern storage device, the Analytics Service creates multiple data partitions on the same storage device.
It does this only when you specify a single Analytics disk path during node initialization.

> The service determines the number of partitions using the following formula:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Analytics Service determines the number of partitions using the following formula:
```

* `Maximum partitions to create = Min((Analytics Memory in MB / 1024), 16)`
* `Actual created partitions = Min(node virtual cores, Maximum partitions to create)`

For example, if a node has 8 virtual cores and the Analytics Service has at least 8{nbsp}GB of memory, the system creates 8 data partitions on that node.
Similarly, for a node with 32 virtual cores and 16{nbsp}GB memory, the system creates 16 partitions, the maximum for automatic partitioning.

> === Index considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Index Considerations
```

The size of a secondary index is around the total size of indexed fields in the Analytics collection. 
For example, if a collection has 20 fields and only 1 of those fields appears in the secondary index, the secondary index size is ~1/20 of the collection size.

== Sizing Eventing Service Nodes

> Eventing is a compute oriented service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventing is a compute-oriented service. 
```

By default, Eventing service has 1 worker and each worker has 2 threads of execution. 
You can scale eventing both vertically by adding more workers or horizontally by adding more nodes. 

> The Eventing service partitions the vBuckets across the number of available nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Eventing Service has 1 worker and each worker has 2 threads of execution. 
You can scale the Eventing Service both vertically by adding more workers or horizontally by adding more nodes. 
The Eventing Service partitions the vBuckets across the number of available nodes.
```

=== CPU

> Eventing runs arbitrary JavaScript code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Eventing Service allows you to write and run arbitrary JavaScript code.
```

This flexibility makes it difficult to define a precise sizing formula.
You cannot define a precise formula unless you know the function designs, their KV operations, query operations, cURL operations, and the expected mutation rate.

For example, if you process 100K mutations per second and only match 1 out of 1000 patterns, then perform some intense computation on the matched 100 items in your Eventing Function, you need 100X less compute than if you performed the intense computation on each mutation.

> Eventing also can perform I/O to external REST endpoints via a synchronous HTTP/S cURL call. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Eventing Service also can perform I/O to external REST endpoints through a synchronous HTTP/S cURL call. 
```

> Eventing typically blocks on I/O and requires little CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Eventing Service typically blocks on I/O and does not need much CPU.
```

Achieving high throughput to overcome bandwidth requires additional workers and cores. 

> Use 8 vCPUs or 4 physical cores to run Eventing Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a starting size for your Eventing Service nodes and running Eventing Functions, use 8 vCPUs or 4 physical cores.
```

=== RAM

> The xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/eventing-memory-quota.adoc[Eventing Memory Quota] doc discusses the Eventing Service memory quota in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couchbase recommends a memory quota of 256{nbsp}MB for the Eventing Service. 
For more information about the Eventing Service's memory quota, see xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/eventing-memory-quota.adoc[].
```

> The xref:learn:buckets-memory-and-storage/eventing-memory-quota.adoc[Eventing Memory Quota] doc discusses the Eventing Service memory quota in detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the Eventing Service memory quota, see xref:eventing:eventing-memory-quota.adoc[].
```

Author: Simon, I have provided the link but kept the wording as what Sarah suggested as I felt it was more apt. Hope that is fine!

Refer to this document to learn more about:

--
* Eventing Service memory quota
* How Eventing Service memory quota works
* The distribution of the total memory quota across workers
* The limitations and considerations
* Best practices and recommendations

> --

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> --

Reviewer 2: Not sure if you need this bullet list? It's just a summary of`eventing-memory-quota.adoc`. I would delete this.

Author: Have deleted this list.

=== Eventing Storage Collection (previously Metadata Bucket)

> Each Eventing function stores fewer than 2048 documents in its Eventing storage collection. 
> If timers are not used or if the active timers count does not exceed the per-function document limit, store the Eventing storage collection in a 100 MB bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Eventing Function stores fewer than 2048 documents in its Eventing storage collection. 
If timers are not used or if your number of active timers does not exceed the per-function document limit, store the Eventing storage collection in a 100{nbsp}MB bucket.
```

Using timers requires additional storage for each active timer.
Each active timer requires 800 bytes, plus the size of the passed context, which represents the state supplied to the function at future execution.

> A 200-byte context results in 1 KB of storage per active timer.
> 100,000 active timers require 100 MB of additional bucket space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A 200-byte context results in 1{nbsp}KB of storage per active timer.
100,000 active timers require 100{nbsp}MB of additional bucket space.
```

> As a best practice, keep this collection fully resident in-memory to make sure constant availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a best practice, keep this collection fully resident in-memory.
```

> NOTE: All Eventing functions use this collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: All your Eventing Functions share this collection.
```

The size of a secondary index is around the total size of indexed fields in the Analytics collection. 
For example, if a collection has 20 fields and only 1 of those fields appears in the secondary index, the secondary index size is ~1/20 of the collection size.

== Sizing Eventing Service Nodes

Eventing is a compute-oriented service. 
By default, the Eventing Service has 1 worker and each worker has 2 threads of execution. 
You can scale the Eventing Service both vertically by adding more workers or horizontally by adding more nodes. 
The Eventing Service partitions the vBuckets across the number of available nodes.

=== CPU

Eventing runs arbitrary JavaScript code.
This flexibility makes it difficult to define a precise sizing formula.
You cannot define a precise formula unless you know the function designs, their KV operations, query operations, cURL operations, and the expected mutation rate.

For example, if you process 100K mutations per second and only match 1 out of 1000 patterns, then perform some intense computation on the matched 100 items in your Eventing Function, you need 100X less compute than if you performed the intense computation on each mutation.

> Eventing also can perform I/O to external REST endpoints via a synchronous HTTP/S cURL call. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventing also can perform I/O to external REST endpoints through a synchronous HTTP/S cURL call. 
```

Eventing typically blocks on I/O and requires little CPU.
Achieving high throughput to overcome bandwidth requires additional workers and cores. 

Use 8 vCPUs or 4 physical cores to run Eventing Functions.

=== RAM

> The xref:eventing:eventing-memory-quota.adoc[Eventing Memory Quota] doc discusses the Eventing Service Memory quota in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about how to size your Eventing memory quota, see xref:eventing:eventing-memory-quota.adoc[].
```

=== Eventing Storage Collection (previously Metadata Bucket)

Each Eventing function stores fewer than 2048 documents in its Eventing storage collection. 
If timers are not used or if the active timers count does not exceed the per-function document limit, store the Eventing storage collection in a 100 MB bucket.

Using timers requires additional storage for each active timer.
Each active timer requires 800 bytes, plus the size of the passed context, which represents the state supplied to the function at future execution.

A 200-byte context results in 1 KB of storage per active timer.
100,000 active timers require 100 MB of additional bucket space.

> As a best practice, keep this collection fully resident in-memory to make sure constant availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a best practice, keep this collection fully resident in-memory to make sure you have constant availability.
```

|===

== Sizing for Replication (XDCR)

Before setting up a replication, you must make sure your cluster is appropriately configured and provisioned.

Your cluster must be properly sized to be able to handle new XDCR streams.

For example, XDCR needs 1-2 additional CPU cores per stream. 
In some cases, it also requires additional RAM and network resources. 

> If a cluster is not sized to handle `both` the existing workload `and` the new XDCR streams, the performance of both XDCR and the cluster overall may be negatively impacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a cluster is not sized to handle both the existing workload and the new XDCR streams, the performance of both XDCR and the cluster overall might be negatively impacted.
```

|===

== Sizing for Replication (XDCR)

Before setting up a replication, you must make sure your cluster is appropriately configured and provisioned.

Your cluster must be properly sized to be able to handle new XDCR streams.

For example, XDCR needs 1-2 additional CPU cores per stream. 
In some cases, it also requires additional RAM and network resources. 

> If a cluster is not sized to handle `both` the existing workload `and` the new XDCR streams, the performance of both XDCR and the cluster overall may be negatively impacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your cluster is not sized to handle both the existing workload and the new XDCR streams, the performance of both XDCR and your cluster might be negatively impacted.
```
